------------------------ Submission 341, Review 1 ------------------------

Title: Collaborative Visual Analysis on the Web with RCloud

Reviewer:           primary

Overall Rating

  <b>3</b>: Sufficient contribution 

Topic Classification

  Type: System

Best Paper Award

  No

Contribution to the field of Visual Analytics

  The paper presents RCloud, a collaborative system that supports data
  analysis, visualization and web deployment. In the system, analysts
  create and view notebooks, which are the major front-end unit of the
  system. In notebooks, users can write codes or hypertext in Markdown.
  Multiple users can access the same notebook by URL and can edit and
  execute the notebook at the same time.

Expertise

  3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review

  1. What are its strengths and weaknesses?

  Strengths:
  A comprehensive interviews with 13 current users of RCloud are conducted
  and their comments are described in detail. It’s convincing that the
  system is helpful and powerful.

  Weakness:
  The paper lacks depth and rigorousness expected for a TVCG paper. The
  system is described at a high-level way and there are no much details. 
  Besides, the paper mainly describes the code execution and version
  controlling, instead of visual analytics.

  2.	Is this work novel, incremental, or previously published? 
  This work is incremental.
  The visualization techniques used in the system are not novel. Comparing
  with IBM ManyEyes, RCloud allows analysts to explore and visualize data
  by writing codes.
  Through the description, I think that RCloud is more like an IDE that
  supports writing codes collaboratively or a code sharing system than a
  collaborative visual analytic system.

  3.	Is this work relevant for VAST? If not, what other venues would be
  appropriate?
  Visual analytics components in the system seem to be week as the paper
  doesn’t describe any visualization techniques. The most novel aspect
  claimed by the paper is the tight integration between the web client and
  the backend R process,  which is less relevant to VAST.

  4.	Is related work adequately referenced and if not what citations should
  be added?
  Related work is adequately referenced.

  5.	Are the technical results sound? Are the methods and techniques
  described in adequate detail
  One case study is described. An application named LDAVis is built on the
  system, but neither the result of visualization nor the discovery which
  users find are demonstrated.

  6.	Is the exposition clear? How could the structure or style of the
  presentation be improved?
  Introduction seems to be too long and section 3 The System is too short. 

  7.	Should anything be deleted or condensed from the writeup?
  Section 3.4 can be deleted, because it has little relation with
  visualization.
  Table 1 compares RCloud with other systems including RStudio, JSFiddle,
  bl.ocks, shiny, Jupyter and Tableau. But ManyEyes is not included while
  it is very relative to this system. I think ManyEyes should be added into
  the table.

  8.	Are the figures informative?
  Captions of figure 2 and figure 4 are too short. 

  Minor issues:
  1)	Page 2, second column, paragraph 3, point 1:
  “... development of analyses and visualizations s done by hackers and
  scripters ...” → “development of analysis and visualizations is
  done by hackers and scripters”.
  2)	Page 5, second column, paragraph 3:
  “Gibbs sampling []”, the reference is missing.
  3)	Page 9, first column, paragraph 1:
  “But the combined notebook and command line interface we designed
  interferes with the use of R for exploration” → “But the combined
  notebook and command line interface we designed interfere with the use of
  R for exploration”

Main Recommendation

  <b>Acceptable for presentation</b>

Additional Recommendation about TVCG Publication

  This paper is well-below the average standard of papers in TVCG,  and it should not be considered for TVCG.

The Summary Review

  This paper received mixed reviews. It describes RCloud, a collaborative
  visual analytics system, its usage in a large company, and feedback from
  many end users. Two reviewers feel the paper lacks the depth and
  rigorousness expected for a TVCG paper while the other two reviewers
  believe knowing such a system used in a real company is worth to be
  shared with the community. 

  I do not see how the paper can be significantly changed with its current
  structure. But the following presentation issues could be addressed in
  several weeks:  
   1- the beginning of the paper: on the issue, its important, and current
  gap
   2- system: provide more details about the system and some design
  decisions
   3- Evaluation: choice of evaluation, and more details about the
  evaluation, settings, etc (right now it is too scattered and not
  presented in a normal (or clear) format:  objectives, users, setting,  
  process,results, etc. 
   4-discussion: focus around the most important lesson learned.

Second round final review



Best Paper Award



Second round comments



------------------------ Submission 341, Review 2 ------------------------

Title: Collaborative Visual Analysis on the Web with RCloud

Reviewer:           secondary

Overall Rating

  4.5 

Topic Classification

  Type: System
  Topic: Presentation, production and dissemination

Best Paper Award

  Yes

Contribution to the field of Visual Analytics

  Sharing visual analytics results, intermediate or final, is an important
  area for visual analytics. I practically all areas of VA there are teams
  analyzing data, scripts and outcomes, so RCloud is a good example on how
  to enable sharing these assets within a team or a lab. This system paper
  describes an implemented and tested system, and reports about the things
  that worked and those that didn't work in recent years. I think it gives
  great insights for researchers and practitioners who want to create and
  use something similar.

Expertise

  3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review

  This is a rare paper, as it describes real experience with a system to
  share analyses, scripts and results within a larger team. I was impressed
  by the number of people that regularly use this platform to share, fork,
  or discover and explore other's work.

  The authors don't advertise their system but rather take a hard look at
  their design considerations and limitations of the system. This allows
  other researchers to adapt this approach and maybe find alternatives in
  areas where RCloud has challenges. The paper also compares their system
  with the best-of-breed systems (to my best of knowledge, I don't have a
  complete overview of all the systems out there).

  The system description and the case study clearly explain the features of
  the system and how users can work with it. While the interview setup is
  adequate and the study produced a lot of information (as shown in the
  supplemental materials), it is maybe the weakest section. There is no
  real structure within each subsection and the sequence of subsections is
  not comprehensible to me. There are many citations of users, again not
  structured to follow a certain argumentation, but seemingly without
  structure. The reader has to create an own picture of common opinion vs.
  unique statements, and what to learn from this.

  My suggestion would be to first explain at the beginning of Section 5,
  what the intention of this section is (is it just proving that the study
  was indeed done, or is there some message that should come across). Maybe
  it would be good to create an overview picture or initial section
  explaining the sequence of subsections, and why these topics are
  important for understanding user feedback. Each subsection should start
  with a general picture of the feedback to this topic, followed by
  statements as examples. When I read the first sentence, e.g., of 5.3:
  "Automatic source control is also a popular feature." I assume that this
  is all what I will learn from this section.

  Overall, I am quite convinced that this paper is really helpful and
  insightful. It complements the recent paper by Kandel et al. and specific
  system approaches by giving a report about the actual use of such a
  system in a larger organization. With an adapted study section, I think
  it would be a very good contribution.


------------------------ Submission 341, Review 3 ------------------------

Title: Collaborative Visual Analysis on the Web with RCloud

Reviewer:           external

Overall Rating

  <b>2</b>: Weak contribution 

Topic Classification

  Type: System

Best Paper Award

  No

Contribution to the field of Visual Analytics

  This paper introduces a set of tools to support collaborative EDA using
  notebooks. It aims at making users more efficient by capturing the
  knowledge they produce during the exploration process, and make it easy
  to share and re-execute. It is basically a knowledge management tool
  applied to Visual Analysis.

Expertise

  3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review

  The paper is well written. The section discussing the lessons and
  limitation is very thoughtful and clearly explains the current state of
  the deployment and the upcoming challenges. This kind of work would
  definitely contribute in making visual analysis tools more pervasive and
  efficient.

  My main concern with the current article is that RCloud interface lacks
  of details and remains quite abstract all along the article. It is not
  clear what the workflow is, what the interface looks like, etc.
  Screenshots are always very small. As I am familiar with iPython and R I
  guessed what they are about, but then I can’t see any new strong
  contribution with the RCloud interface. This is another concern: what is
  the contribution of RCloud? The environment or the design study behind
  its implementation and use? I've found the description of RCloud very
  fluid and interesting (version control, easy way to share prototypes with
  URLs, portability across systems) but here again I can’t see any
  novelty compared to current tools (Github, notebook).

  This brings me to another concern. The paper aims at addressing so many
  points with RCloud that they are not detailed or discussed through-fully.
  For instance, in "5.1 sharing of result", Kenyon says that it is easy to
  find a piece of code form someone who previously worked on the same
  problem.. but it is not clear how this can be done with RCloud (by
  keyword? recommendation?). This also contradicts the claims that Notebook
  were hard to find as there are too many. This should have been
  anticipated as any accumulation of knowledge triggers the problem of
  classification and retrieval. Thus, this should have also been one of the
  core design principle for RCloud and not a lesson learned after a first
  iteration.

  As a summary, the article describes an ambitious content management
  system for visual analysis, and its current progress towards it. Despite
  I find the motivation and the discussion very relevant to the filed, the
  of lack of description of RCloud and the apparent lack of improvement
  over current tools suggest me the article is not ready for publication at
  VAST.


------------------------ Submission 341, Review 4 ------------------------

Title: Collaborative Visual Analysis on the Web with RCloud

Reviewer:           external

Overall Rating

  3.5 

Topic Classification

  Type: System

Best Paper Award

  No

Contribution to the field of Visual Analytics

  This paper presents design, implementation, and (at some level)
  evaluation of Rcloud. Rcloud is a system that creates a shared visual
  analytics environment for analysts and developers to collaborate and
  communicate. The paper addresses several important issues that currently
  VA developers are facing such as linking visualization to the source
  code, issues like data wrangling, forking, sharing, and etc.

  In terms of evaluation, I was so interested to see an in depth evaluation
  of the system. There are many valid concerns reported by interviewees
  that remain unclear and could have been investigated and discussed more
  in the discussion section. However, I think that the design and
  implementation of the system itself, as well as concerns raised by
  interview study is a valid contribution to the field of visual analytics
  and could inspire others in VAST research to follow up on this direction.

Expertise

  3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review

  What are the strengths and weaknesses?

  In my mind, this paper has potential to be an excellent contribution to
  the field of visual analytics. However, it needs some more work in terms
  of exposition the idea, and more in depth evaluations. Authors present
  many promising features for the system, my concern is the effectiveness
  of the feature are not clear. For instance, one of the interesting
  features in Notebook and the ability to easily share and reuse it. But
  some valid and expected concerns reported by users, such as navigating
  through notebook tree, dealing with old/deleted notebooks, and problem of
  scalability should be discussed more deeply. 

  However, I still think that the idea is promising and it is defiantly
  relevant and important to VAST community.

  Is this work novel?

  Many aspects of the system, such as Notebook, are not novel (they aptly
  noted this), but the idea of putting them together and use them to create
  a collaborative data and code sharing space is very important to me. 


  Is the exposition clear? How could the structure or style of the
  presentation be improved?

  Overall I found the paper well-written, but it could be improved a lot in
  terms of structure and exposition. I would have liked a shorter and
  better synthesized introduction that upfront explains the main goal of
  the paper and how they accomplished it, what ideas have been tested and
  what are the most important implications (in both abstract and
  introduction). For instance, what are the novel features that system
  offers and which one was reported the best by users/interviewees.

  I also believe that the description of the system in the abstract should
  be improved: “Rcloud is a system that supports the requirements of
  collaborative data analysis, visualization and web deployment.” It
  should better encompass the approach, significant and possible impacts.

  Are the figures informative?

  I did not find fig 1 as a teaser very informative. Mostly because the
  caption does not provide clear objectives that Rcloud system addresses. I
  feel like later in the paper, authors find better ways to describe the
  system and contributions, but those should be captured and move early on
  to provide a crisp description of the goals as well as all the
  contributions.

  For instant, in page 4 they better describe the goal and the importance
  of the system: “By making it convenient for data scientists to expend
  just a
  little additional effort when creating experiments, we may be able to
  eliminate the need for programming teams to recreate their work to
  deploy it in production, which has a high cost in time, expense and
  accuracy.”

  Is the (optional) supplementary material helpful?

  While, I appreciate the supplementary material that they provided, I
  would have liked to see a demo of the system to have a better picture of
  the system: things like Notebook features, navigation between notebooks
  (own and others), how history and bookmarks are shown, and etc.
  
