Title: RCloud: Integrating Collaborative and Exploratory Visualization, Analysis and Deployment

Reviewer:           primary

Overall Rating

  2  (<b>Probably reject:</b> I would argue for rejecting this paper.)

Topic Classification

  Presentation, Production, and Dissemination

Best Paper Award

  No

Contribution to the field of Visual Analytics

  This paper presents a system to support collaboration between data
  scientists. It is a VAST topic because collaboration is a key issue in
  visual analytics. The visual analytics agenda calls for research efforts
  that support collaborative work for distributed teams. 

Expertise

  3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review

  This paper takes a look at the problem of supporting collaborations
  between data scientists and presents RCloud, a system for creating and
  sharing notebooks of code snippets. Very few visualization research
  addresses the social and collaborative aspects of visual analysis, so it
  is great to see that the authors are thinking about this problem. At its
  current form, however, it seems that the paper needs more work.

  It is not clear what problem RCloud is trying to solve. The introduction
  gives a good overview of the problem space, but those are lofty goals
  requiring years of work potentially involving multiple teams. From a
  user-centric perspective, how does RCloud help a data science team? I
  wish there is a lower-level problem formulation addressing real user
  needs. 

  Perhaps due to the lack of a well-defined goal, there are not many
  justifications for the design choices in the system description. For
  example, why do we want to focus on the concept of a notebook in the
  first place? What activities performed by data scientists can take
  advantage of the functionalities provided by RCloud?

  In section 3.2, I do not understand what it means by “notebooks are
  always deployed”. Please elaborate. 

  In general, the descriptions in section 3 feel too technology-specific.
  As a research paper, the audience probably care less about how the system
  is implemented (whether it’s in R or some other language), but why. It
  is important to be able to provide an abstract system model which can be
  implemented in different ways. 

  The case study is supposed to help us understand how RCloud is used in
  action, but I’m not sure if I can appreciate the value of the system
  after reading it.

  Section 5.1 seems to be addressing some of the concerns I raised earlier
  about design considerations, but without a concrete problem statement,
  the section appears to be covering too many issues.

Summary Rating

  2  (<b>Probably reject:</b> This paper is not ready for publication as required improvement could not be done within a minor revision.)

The Summary Review

  According to the reviews, the strengths of this paper include:
    - the submission is addressing an important problem
    - the topic is under-explored in the VAST community and further
  research along this direction is needed

    Major weaknesses raised by the reviewers include:
   - major rewriting is needed to explain how the system works and to
  clarify the contributions
    - it's not clear how the system works in real workflow 
    - feedback from real users needed
    - stronger validation for system requirements needed
    - too much focus on technology/implementation details
    - lack of a well-defined research problem / the scope is too broad

  All reviewers agree the quality of the paper is not good enough for
  publication, but the topic is interesting and more work is needed in this
  problem space. However, choosing a good topic does not warrant the
  acceptance of a paper. We encourage the authors to address the reviewers'
  concerns and wish the authors best of luck in continuing doing research
  on this cool topic.  

Second round final review



Best Paper Award



Second round comments



------------------------ Submission 300, Review 1 ------------------------

Title: RCloud: Integrating Collaborative and Exploratory Visualization, Analysis and Deployment

Reviewer:           secondary

Overall Rating

  2  (<b>Probably reject:</b> I would argue for rejecting this paper.)

Topic Classification

  Technology Practice and Experience

Best Paper Award

  No

Contribution to the field of Visual Analytics

  Authors present an integrated environment that supports the development
  and deployment of visual analytics by data scientists. Sharing and
  versioning is supported through notebooks that contain scripts of state
  of the art tools/languages such as R and D3. 

Expertise

  3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review

  Authors present an integrated environment that supports the development
  and deployment of visual analytics by data scientists. Sharing and
  versioning is supported through notebooks that contain scripts of state
  of the art tools/languages such as R and D3. 

  In the Introductions authors motivate their work by expressing a strong
  need for integration (of  people. technologies, and work artifacts) and
  identified a number of requirements, particularly for data science teams
  and practice. It is not clear where those requirements come from. If
  there is a paper to cite or even an informal study/observation, request
  from a client, please provide some more information. Otherwise please say
  that these are based on your own experience, and provide the basis of
  this experience.

  Authors solutions mainly centers around notebooks, which are in essence
  scripts with integrated version control. The approach is pretty open in
  that notebooks are shared with everyone and can be starred to indicate
  interest/like. 

  Authors claim that collaboration requirement is met by the ability to
  share and star notebooks openly. I doubt that this requirement can be
  checked off simply by sharing scripts (there is so much
  detail/context/assumptions in scripts) which would hardly scale beyond
  small and closely working teams. It seems starring is only reflected on
  the UI, as they don't (yet) feed in to a recommender system. Also for
  organization of notebooks authors adoped a folders approach. It is well
  known that this doesn't scale much. Also foldering is very personal.

  Likewise issue of provenance seems to be offloaded to version control
  system. Again this is another hard issue that a simple VCS would suffice,
  particularly in this domain. There is much more than code, take data for
  example. Provenance of data is much harder than that of code. It seems
  authors did not even consider data. Similarly security with data is much
  different than that of code. Simply providing authentication to the
  runtime environment would not be acceptable or scalable. Data is very
  sensitive. Even within a company there is data that needs to be handled
  in special ways. 

  On many of these issues there seems to be too much
  technology/implementation perspective/details (http, r, solr, json,
  github, etc.) rather than on usability/requirements. It seems that
  authors have put together a number of packages to quickly create an
  integrated environment without much consideration of actual usability and
  user requirements. 

  When discussing lessons and limitations it is not clear where these are
  coming from. Provide details of the mentioned community of analysts. How
  many users? Who are they? How many notebooks, created, and shared? How
  much collaboration? How long have they been active? Etc. etc. 

  Overall I felt that the paper/technology is not yet ready for
  publication. Many claims are made that authors suggested addressed
  problems/requirements they identified. Limited (very few users) and
  informal study is reported and need to be validated by larger/longer
  studies. From system perspective it is not clear how much the system
  delivers beyond programming language IDEs (e.g. eclipse which has strong
  (and finer level) collaboration support, integrated version control,
  debugging, modelling). Author make no mention of debugging, which I am
  sure would come up with some real-world deployment. 

  Minor points:
  - Introductions (4th Paragraph) contains several references to
  technologies which are either not cited or loosely cited. Please cite
  properly, as some have associated papers, some have at least web
  references.
  - Related Work (2nd Paragraph) "There are many discountinuities in this
  cycle that cost time and effort to overcome". Explain what these are.
  - Figure 4 is hardly readable as such not adding much value to
  discussion. Either zoom in on the most critical views in the tools or
  explain this abstract process picture or better yet through an example. 
  - Several minor writing mistakes, but I think the paper could use a
  better organization. Issues are explained when they come up as opposed in
  properly organized manner. 


------------------------ Submission 300, Review 2 ------------------------

Title: RCloud: Integrating Collaborative and Exploratory Visualization, Analysis and Deployment

Reviewer:           external

Overall Rating

  3  (<b>Indecision:</b> I could not make up my mind about this paper.)

Topic Classification

  Presentation, Production, and Dissemination

Best Paper Award

  No

Contribution to the field of Visual Analytics

  This paper describes a web-based system for collaborative production and
  dissemination of visual and textual analytic artifacts. This is an
  important topic with visual analytics.

  The paper's contributions include the description of the system based on
  combining a range of open source and web-based technologies. It discusses
  design choices in the system and UI and describes lessons learned.

Expertise

  2  (Passing Knowledge)

The Review

  This paper is in a very important space---developing better tools to
  support collaborative and reproducible visual analytics. The proposed
  tool, RCloud, is intriguing and I could imagine it being very helpful in
  my own workflow. Further, I think this type of tool needs broader
  exposure in the VAST community and would like to see further research in
  this direction. I like the discussion section reporting on the use of the
  tool in the authors' organization.

  I think the main weakness of this paper is that it doesn't have enough
  technical meat. It reads more like a workshop paper than a conference
  paper. If the new VAST conference-only track is intended to be more
  workshop-like, I think this paper could be presented there. 

  I think that the paper should be strengthened by:

  * Separating the current section 3 into two sections. One that covers the
  UI and UX, and another that covers the technical system details. The
  current intermixing of these is confusing and serves to disguise the fact
  that neither aspect of the system is described in much detail.

  * I would appreciate a more detailed description of the UI that ties
  directly to some appropriate figures. UI elements that were treated very
  cursorily in this paper that deserve more discussion:

  - the "hacker" and "application user" UIs shown in Figure 1. How does a
  user transition between them? Is there always a 1-to-1 relationship
  between workbooks and reports? What actions can and can't be done in each
  UI? etc.

  - the version control model. How is forking, pull requests, etc.
  presented to users in your UI? Is it similar to github's UI? Is there
  anything special about version control that arises in the visual
  analytics space?

  - How are execution and coding interleaved in a workflow?

  - The cell/workbook model. The paper mentions that this is adopted from
  previous work, but I'd really appreciate a quick discussion of how it
  works and why you chose to adopt it.

  * I would like a more complete description of the system implementation.
  From the current descriptions it is difficult to know exactly what is
  implemented. For example:

  - Section 3.1 mentions a front-facing API, but I can't find any
  description of this API in the paper.

  - How are you providing R as a web service? The background section
  mentions Shiny, but the paper never explicitly says that RCloud uses
  Shiny. Did you roll your own solution?

  - Section 3.5 mentions that you provide a way to share closures between R
  and Javascript. I'd really appreciate the details of how this works.

  - Figure 2 is somewhat confusing. There are many boxes with no arrows
  connecting to or from them. How are they used? The Figure shows that you
  are using Redis for storage, but the text of the paper never mentions it.

  * The Figures need to be referenced from the text and described. As I was
  reading I often couldn't tell when I was supposed to be referring to a
  figure and a number of times I think I referred to the wrong figure. For
  example, I think that Section 3.1 is intended to be associated with
  Figure 1, but I spent quite awhile looking at Figure 3 since it is on the
  same page as Section 3.1. The figures all need to be larger. In
  particular, in Figure 4, I can't tell what is happening since the
  pictures are all too small.


  In Section 5.1, under Discussion, the phrase "making it a bit awkward and
  not as widely used as we hoped" appears to be extraneous.


------------------------ Submission 300, Review 4 ------------------------

Title: RCloud: Integrating Collaborative and Exploratory Visualization, Analysis and Deployment

Reviewer:           external

Overall Rating

  3  (<b>Indecision:</b> I could not make up my mind about this paper.)

Topic Classification

  Others

Best Paper Award

  No

Contribution to the field of Visual Analytics

  This paper describes the design and implementation of a system called
  RCloud which supports collaborative work by data scientists in corporate
  organizations. RCloud makes two major contributions: first, it covers the
  entire workflow of exploratory data analysis so an analyst can use this
  one system for everything from data analysis and visualization to web
  deployment all in R; second, RCloud is designed to support sharing and
  re-using of scripts so team members can collaborate together. I think
  both contributions are significant and timely. And I like the fact that
  RCloud is an open-source project that anyone can download and use.

Expertise

  3  (Knowledgeable)

The Review

  I like the concept of RCloud. From the description it looks like the
  system addresses a number of important issues with current EDA practice
  in corporate environments. However, I feel the paper at its current stage
  does not do the system justice. There are vital parts missing from the
  paper that makes it hard to understand or evaluate the system. I will
  have to see major revisions before accepting the paper.

  The biggest missing piece is how visualizations are generated. The paper
  mentions that users only script in R, and then somehow interactive
  visualizations are built in JavaScript. In the Case Study section there
  is a brief explanation: “simple R expressions are captured as trees to
  generate JavaScript expressions”. And I have no idea what the authors
  mean by “captured as trees”. Then there is a sentence talking about
  “the terse chart description language”, which I assume is some kind
  of R library the authors developed to generate charts in JavaScript. I
  would like to see a full description in the System section of how
  JavaScript expressions are translated from R, and how the “chart
  description language” works. 

  Related to this problem, in Section 3.5 the authors claim “the
  connection between R and JavaScript is not just procedural and makes
  closures and first-class functions available across the network”. This
  is very hard to understand, and I’d like the authors to explain it a
  bit further.

  My second biggest issue with this paper is it does not give the reader
  any example of how the system really works in an EDA workflow aside from
  a very simple case study. I’d like to see at least one realistic usage
  scenario where the collaborative aspect of RCloud is demonstrated. I’d
  also like to see what real users think of the system. The authors claim
  they have active users and discussed some issues reported by these users
  in Section 5.2. I prefer to see a more formal evaluation, but just adding
  feedback from users can go a long way in improving this paper.

  A minor problem: please reference figures when you discuss them in
  text.

